# MathGame
Online math learning game

This is a math learning game for first and second graders.  Students complete soccer games to meet learning goals determined by the teacher. They complete a level by making 10 goals that then unlocks other more difficult levels.  The main goal of this project is to develop a fun, innovative approach to math learning for elementary students that allows the teacher to interface and track students' progress. We used MySQL database to the students name as well as the students’ progress and scores. We used the Django framework to set up our server and incorporated with HTML templates.  We also used JavaScript within the HTML templates. 
This game has a random problem generator that generates the math problems for the students.  It is an interactive game play that as the students answer the questions rights they the player moves down the field but if they answer the question wrong the player moves toward the opponent’s goal.  It also has an admin page for changing the database and gives the teacher a way to also manipulate the database if needed. 

I choose this program because it allowed me to demonstrate what I learned in the database class.  We needed to create an ER-Diagram and implement that in a MySQL database.  This program also allowed me to learn JavaScript and how to use HTML to display a webpage.  My main task with this game was the player.  I created the player in Photoshop.  The player needed to be done in pieces to allow the manipulation of the player in Spine so that the player would look like it was moving.  Then I needed to code the ball and player in JavaScript so that when the student answered the question right the player would kick the ball and the player and ball would move a certain distance forward or if the student got the wrong answer the player would turn around and move in the opposite direction.  I also was in charge of creating a separate learning screen which allowed me to be able to do more with HTML and JavaScript.  I feel that HTML and JavaScript are important because every company has a website and knowing a little about these will be valuable skills to have to enter the workforce.  
 
